---
layout: post
---

Okay, Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) is one of the most frequently used, at least in my experience, communication protocol to connect devices or integrated circuits (IC) together. It is very easy and quick to setup once you get familiar with the interface.

# What is it?
Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) is a type of serial communication protocol used to connect devices to computers and microcontrollers, allowing them to exchange data. It is a popular bus system that is widely used in embedded electronics, allowing for the transfer of data at high speeds while consuming relatively low power.

# when do you use it?
OK, I know what it is now, but when do I use it? well, let's say your project requires to measure a voltage at certain frequency 

# How do you use it?



SPI is a synchronous system, meaning that data is transferred between two devices simultaneously with the help of a clock signal. This signal is generated by the master device and sent to the slave device, allowing them to coordinate the data transfer and maintain synchronization. The data is sent in packets, with each packet containing a command and the corresponding data. This allows for the transfer of multiple pieces of data in a single transmission.

SPI is a full-duplex protocol, meaning that data can be sent and received at the same time. This makes it a great choice for applications that require high-speed data transfer, such as streaming audio or video. Additionally, SPI is relatively simple to implement and is often used in consumer and industrial products.

SPI is a versatile protocol and can be used in a variety of applications. Its high speed and low power consumption make it a great choice for embedded systems, and its